# INOIS Desktop Client

A front-end Python 3 CLI application for securing, transmitting, and searching on data sets containing PID. 

## Installation
### Mac OS / Linux
- This project has been set up using PyScaffold 3.2.3. For details and usage
information on PyScaffold see https://pyscaffold.org/.

INOIS was built using Python 3.8 and requires that Python 3 be installed on your machine.
To install the application, clone the source  code from the git repository by executing: 

```
git clone https://github.com/gsuinoisdev/inois-python-client.git
```

After successful cloning, navigate to the main project folder
which contains the file 'setup.py'.  Then verify that the 'python' command in your terminal points to Python version 
3 (not 2!) by executing the following command: 

```
python --version
```
Note that many Mac OS machines come with Python 2.7 pre-installed and hence the above command will point to this version.
In such cases the Python 3 distribution will be installed under then command 'python3', i.e., 
```
python3 --version
```
points to the correct version.  After verifying which command corresponds to Python 3 on your machine, the application can be
installed in development mode via the following command:
```
python3 setup.py develop
```
Installing the program in development mode ensures that any changes you make to the source code will affect the 
application at runtime.  If you do not wish to modify the application code and/or prefer a permanent installation,
then INOIS can be installed by executing:
```
python setup.py install
```
Note that either installation mode requires you to have write access to the files in your Python distribution's folders.
If this is not the case, then the installation command will need to be executed as the root (super) user. For example, 
on a Mac:
```
sudo python setup.py install
```
After the installation is successful, a new command 'inois' will be available in your terminal shell.  This means the
application can be run by executing the following command:
```
inois
```

### Windows
For Windows machines, a binary executable version of the app is also available.  To run the application in this way 
navigate to the 'windows-executable' folder in the source code and unpack the file 'app.zip' to the location on your 
machine you wish to install the application into.  After unzipping 'app.zip', navigate inside the resulting folder.  The
application executable will be present under the name 'app.exe'.  Note that this executable must be run from inside 
this folder to ensure the application's dependencies are satisfied.  Note also that running the application in this way
does not require that Python be installed on your Windows device.

## Additional Options When Running the App from the Command Line
After installation, running the app from the command line is achieved via the following command:
```
inois
```
However, the location of the application's input file, the application mode, and optional application
logging (see the application's documentation for further discussion of the application mode and input file) 
can all be specified via flags from the command line when starting the app.  To set the input file location via 
a flag use the '--input_file' option as:
```
inois --input_file <path to your input file>
```
To set the application mode via a flag, use the '--mode' option as:
```
inois --mode <application mode>
```
where valid mode types are 'upload' and 'search'.
To enable application logging use the '--log_file' option as:
```
inois --log_file <path to application log file>
```
Note these options can be specified in any combination.  The following example command starts the application in search 
mode using an input file named 'input.txt' located in the user john.doe's Documents folder with application logging
enabled and being written to the current directory in a file named 'inois.log':
```
inois --input_file /Users/john.doe/Documents/config_example.txt --log_file inois.log --mode search
```


## Unit Tests

From the main application directory, a full report of all unit test cases and code coverage metrics can be 
generated by executing the following command:
```
python3 setup.py test
```
